JUDY WOODRUFF: With Congress
back from their Independence
Day break, the pressure is on
for Republicans to broker a
deal on health care, in addition
to other high priorities
like tax reform, all of
this as the August recess
looms just weeks away.
In a minute, John Yang will be
back to talk to Lisa Desjardins,
but, first, Lisa has the
current state of
play on Capitol Hill.
LISA DESJARDINS: With the
health care fight unresolved
and no action on the budget or
tax reform, Utah Senator Mike
Lee and nine fellow Republicans
asked today to cancel the
August recess.
SEN.
MIKE LEE (R), Utah: At this
time, it doesn't make sense for
us to just take the month of
August off.
LISA DESJARDINS: Majority
Leader Mitch McConnell
partially obliged.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL (R-KY),
Majority Leader: We will be in
session the first two weeks of
August.
LISA DESJARDINS: That
buys a little more time
to tackle a daunting
agenda, topped by replacing
Obamacare.
SEN.
MITCH MCCONNELL: We will be
on health care next week.
We will be laying out a revised
version of the repeal and
replace effort, the text of
that, on Thursday morning.
LISA DESJARDINS: Multiple
Republican senators
told "NewsHour" this
is what's in the latest
plan: It restores an
investment tax and a
Medicare tax on the wealthy.
Plans to cut those taxes drew
criticism as helping the rich.
More subsidies or tax
credits for lower-income
families and billions
more for opioid treatment.
But indications are there
will be essentially no changes
to the Medicaid section.
That would cut the number of
people on Medicaid by millions.
And one unusual twist:
Republicans are still mulling an
amendment from Texas Senator Ted
Cruz that will allow
insurers to offer just
one Obamacare-compliant
plan and avoid its
regulations in the rest.
That general idea could
bring on Cruz and other
key votes like Lee.
SEN.
MIKE LEE: That's one way to
get me to yes on the bill.
LISA DESJARDINS: But Democrats,
like Senator Jeanne Shaheen,
voiced a concern some Republican
moderates share.
SEN.
JEANNE SHAHEEN (D), New
Hampshire: Our Republican
colleagues haven't
had just six months to
put together a health care bill.
They have had seven
years and six months.
And the Cruz amendment
is not the answer.
It would roll back
protections for people with
preexisting conditions.
It would cost more
for consumers.
LISA DESJARDINS: All said, it
is not yet clear if a revised
plan will get the 50 votes it
needs.
McConnell wants to hold
that vote next week,
and many Republicans
say it's time, win or
lose.
SEN.
JOHN KENNEDY (R), Louisiana: In
my judgment, it's time to vote.
LISA DESJARDINS: These
are unusual times.
The Senate Historian's Office
tells me that only once in
modern history has the Senate
cut short its August recess.
John, guess what the topic was?
It was 1994.
It was health care.
Democrats failed to pass
their bill back then.
JOHN YANG:
Hillarycare back then.
LISA DESJARDINS: That's right.
JOHN YANG: Lisa, you said
that the Cruz amendment
is going to be key.
But Senator McConnell also
said that Thursday, they
are going to see a text.
How are going to they
handle the Cruz amendment?
LISA DESJARDINS: Yes.
This is a bit of a tricky --
it's actually - - think of it
as two different bills, a bill
A and a bill B. It
will be the same text.
Only, one will have the Cruz
amendment, one will not.
The big moment to decide which
goes forward will be Monday,
probably, when we expect the
Congressional Budget Office
to come out with its score to
say, does the Cruz amendment
help these markets, what does
it do for premiums, what does it
do for preexisting conditions?
That will be the
big decision moment.
JOHN YANG: And in your spot,
you said that they still don't
have the 50 votes for what
is probably going to
come out Thursday.
Are they going to continue
to tweak it to try to
get the votes they need?
Or how is that going to work?
LISA DESJARDINS: I think
that's why we didn't
see text today, John.
That's why saw sort of a
framework and Vice President
Pence up there trying to massage
people into this.
But, honestly, coming out of
the meeting, some people were
more warm to it, like Bob
Corker today.
Others, like Lisa
Murkowski, came out, was
there, was there progress
made on things important
to you?
She turned to reporters
and just said no.
JOHN YANG: So, there's
still some work to go
for someone like that.
They have got two
extra weeks now.
What else are they going to do?
Are there other things they
have got to get done before
they get their reward by going
home for recess?
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: Well,
here's the thing.
If they take the vote on health
care next week, there are
many who think it could fail
and that Mitch McConnell
will let it fail.
At that point, then, they would
have another decision to make.
Do we try again, a different
kind of Republican bill, or do
we in fact work with Democrats,
come up with an entire 'nother
approach to health care to try
to fix the Obamacare markets?
Do we try and pass
that before we leave in
the middle of August?
Then they also have a budget
to deal with, spending bills.
Conservatives want to actually
do a proper spending process
and debate spending cuts,
rather than just have one
big bill dropped on at once.
There is a lot of work to do.
It's not clear how they will
get the votes to do it, though,
but now they do have more
time.
JOHN YANG: Lisa Desjardins,
a lot of work for them,
a lot of work for you.
LISA DESJARDINS: Thank you.